README.md, before:

## Bonfire 
[Bonfire](https://bonfirenetworks.org/) - your plug and play federated network. 

### Flavours
This repo includes configurations to run different flavours of Bonfire, currently that is:
* [Classic](flavours/classic) 
* [ValueFlows](flavours/valueflows) 


## Handy commands

* Upgrade the app + extensions: `make update`  (or `make d-update` if using docker)
* Wipe clean Bonfire extensions builds so they get recompiled: `mix bonfire.deps.clean` (necessary after changing config such as in `config/bonfire_data.exs`)
* Clone a git dep and use the local version, eg: `make dep-clone-local dep="bonfire_me" repo=https://github.com/bonfire-networks/bonfire_me` 
* Automatically commit and push all your changes to local forks (caution, here be dragons!): `make bonfire-push-all-update` 
* Migrate DB when the app is running: `Bonfire.Repo.ReleaseTasks.migrate`
* More handy commands: `make help` and `mix help`

## Dev environment with Nix

If you use direnv, just cd in the directory and you will have all the dependencies. If you just have nix, running `nix-shell` will set you up with a shell.

You will need to create and init the db directory (keeping all your Postgres data inside this directory).
create the db directory `initdb ./db`
create the postgres user `createuser postgres -ds`
create the db `createdb bonfire_dev`
start the postgres instance `pg_ctl -l "$PGDATA/server.log" start`

`mix deps.get` to get elixir dependencies
`cd assets && npm install` to get the frontend dependencies
`mix ecto.migrate` to get an up to date database
`iex -S phx.server` to start the server
check out the app on `localhost:4000` in your browser

## Additional information

- messctl is a little utility for programmatically updating the .deps files from which the final elixir dependencies list is compiled by the mess script. The only use of it is in the dep-* tasks of the Makefile. It is used by some of the project developers and the build does not rely on it.

- FORKS is used by the same developer tasks to determine where to find local forks of dependencies.

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2021 Bonfire Contributors

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public
License along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Add windows additional info in README

README.md, after:

## Bonfire 
[Bonfire](https://bonfirenetworks.org/) - your plug and play federated network. 

### Flavours
This repo includes configurations to run different flavours of Bonfire, currently that is:
* [Classic](flavours/classic) 
* [ValueFlows](flavours/valueflows) 


## Handy commands

* Upgrade the app + extensions: `make update`  (or `make d-update` if using docker)
* Wipe clean Bonfire extensions builds so they get recompiled: `mix bonfire.deps.clean` (necessary after changing config such as in `config/bonfire_data.exs`)
* Clone a git dep and use the local version, eg: `make dep-clone-local dep="bonfire_me" repo=https://github.com/bonfire-networks/bonfire_me` 
* Automatically commit and push all your changes to local forks (caution, here be dragons!): `make bonfire-push-all-update` 
* Migrate DB when the app is running: `Bonfire.Repo.ReleaseTasks.migrate`
* More handy commands: `make help` and `mix help`

## Dev environment with Nix

If you use direnv, just cd in the directory and you will have all the dependencies. If you just have nix, running `nix-shell` will set you up with a shell.

You will need to create and init the db directory (keeping all your Postgres data inside this directory).
create the db directory `initdb ./db`
create the postgres user `createuser postgres -ds`
create the db `createdb bonfire_dev`
start the postgres instance `pg_ctl -l "$PGDATA/server.log" start`

`mix deps.get` to get elixir dependencies
`cd assets && npm install` to get the frontend dependencies
`mix ecto.migrate` to get an up to date database
`iex -S phx.server` to start the server
check out the app on `localhost:4000` in your browser

## Additional information

- messctl is a little utility for programmatically updating the .deps files from which the final elixir dependencies list is compiled by the mess script. The only use of it is in the dep-* tasks of the Makefile. It is used by some of the project developers and the build does not rely on it.

- FORKS is used by the same developer tasks to determine where to find local forks of dependencies.

### Usage under Windows (MSYS or CYGWIN)

If you plan on using the `Makefile` (its rather handy), you must have symlinks enabled. 
You must enable developer mode, and set `core.symlink = true`, [see link.](https://stackoverflow.com/a/59761201)

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2021 Bonfire Contributors

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public
License along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
